Graduate ReadWriteOncePod to GA (#43417)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-access-mode-readwriteoncepod.md

---
title: Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
content_type: task

> weight: 90

Reviewer: ```suggestion
weight: 90
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.22
```

Reviewer 2: I think that should be fine. Just clarify that it is alpha in 1.22.

Author: Added an extra note to clarify. I feel I might be going overboard with these. @sftim what do you think?

Reviewer: I see this is fixed.

---

<!-- overview -->
This page shows how to change the access mode on an existing PersistentVolume to
use ReadWriteOncePod.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

{{< note >}}
The ReadWriteOncePod access mode is only supported for CSI volumes and

> Kubernetes version 1.22+. To use this this feature you will need to update the

Reviewer 2: nit: duplicate "this".

> The ReadWriteOncePod access mode is only supported for CSI volumes and
> Kubernetes version 1.22+. To use this this feature you will need to update the
> following [CSI sidecars](https://kubernetes-csi.github.io/docs/sidecar-containers.html)
> to these versions or greater:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ReadWriteOncePod access mode is only supported for
{{< glossary_tooltip text="CSI" term_id="csi" >}} volumes.
To use this volume access mode you will need to update the
```
(use `min-kubernetes-server-version` in front matter to specify the required version).

* [csi-provisioner:v3.0.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner/releases/tag/v3.0.0)
* [csi-attacher:v3.3.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-attacher/releases/tag/v3.3.0)
* [csi-resizer:v1.3.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-resizer/releases/tag/v1.3.0)
{{< /note >}}

> <!-- steps -->

Reviewer: Move this after “Why should I use ReadWriteOncePod?”

## Why should I use ReadWriteOncePod?

Prior to Kubernetes 1.22, the ReadWriteOnce access mode was commonly used to
restrict PersistentVolume access for workloads that required single-writer
access to storage. However, this access mode had a limitation: it restricted
volume access to a single *node*, allowing multiple pods on the same node to
read from and write to the same volume simultaneously. This could pose a
significant risk for applications that demand strict single-writer access for
data safety.

If ensuring single-writer access is critical for your workloads, consider
migrating your volumes to ReadWriteOncePod.

> ## Migrating existing PersistentVolumes

Reviewer: Is there an example manifest showing a PV and PVC that the reader might need to update?

_There should be._

If you have existing PersistentVolumes, they can be migrated to use
ReadWriteOncePod.

> In this example, we already have a "cat-pictures-pvc" PersistentVolumeClaim that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, there is already a "cat-pictures-pvc" PersistentVolumeClaim that
```

is bound to a "cat-pictures-pv" PersistentVolume, and a "cat-pictures-writer"

> Deployment that uses this PersistentVolumeClaim.

Reviewer 2: Can you clarify that the existing access mode on the PV is ReadWriteOnce?
Also can you clarify that whether migrating from ReadWriteOnce to ReadWriteOncePod is the only migration path, meaning you can't migrate from any other access mode to RWOP?

Author: Updated to clarify ReadWriteOnce volume. Also noted that migrations are supported from all access modes to ReadWriteOncePod (verified by running steps for all other access modes).

As a first step, you need to edit your PersistentVolume's
`spec.persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy` and set it to `Retain`. This ensures your
PersistentVolume will not be deleted when we delete the corresponding
PersistentVolumeClaim:

```shell
kubectl patch pv cat-pictures-pv -p '{"spec":{"persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy":"Retain"}}'
```

Next you need to stop any workloads that are using the PersistentVolumeClaim
bound to the PersistentVolume you want to migrate, and then delete the
PersistentVolumeClaim.

Once that is done, you need to clear your PersistentVolume's `spec.claimRef.uid`
to ensure PersistentVolumeClaims can bind to it upon recreation:

```shell
kubectl scale --replicas=0 deployment cat-pictures-writer
kubectl delete pvc cat-pictures-pvc
kubectl patch pv cat-pictures-pv -p '{"spec":{"claimRef":{"uid":""}}}'
```

> After that you need to replace the PersistentVolume's access modes with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, replace the PersistentVolume's list of valid access modes to be (only)
```

ReadWriteOncePod:

```shell
kubectl patch pv cat-pictures-pv -p '{"spec":{"accessModes":["ReadWriteOncePod"]}}'
```

{{< note >}}

> The ReadWriteOncePod access mode cannot be combined with other access modes.
> Make sure ReadWriteOncePod is the only access mode on the PersistentVolume when

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ReadWriteOncePod` access mode cannot be combined with other access modes.
Make sure `ReadWriteOncePod` is the only access mode on the PersistentVolume when
```

Author: What is the rule of thumb for when I should use this code-snippet formatting?

Author: Updated to use code-snippet formatting throughout the doc per [your recommendation on the blog](https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/43418#discussion_r1393436272)

updating, otherwise the request will fail.
{{< /note >}}

> Next you need to modify your PersistentVolumeClaim to set ReadWriteOncePod as
> the only access mode. You should also set your PersistentVolumeClaim's

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next you need to modify your PersistentVolumeClaim to set `ReadWriteOncePod` as
the only access mode. You should also set the PersistentVolumeClaim's
```

to these versions or greater:

* [csi-provisioner:v3.0.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-provisioner/releases/tag/v3.0.0)
* [csi-attacher:v3.3.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-attacher/releases/tag/v3.3.0)
* [csi-resizer:v1.3.0+](https://github.com/kubernetes-csi/external-resizer/releases/tag/v1.3.0)
{{< /note >}}

## Why should I use ReadWriteOncePod?

Prior to Kubernetes 1.22, the ReadWriteOnce access mode was commonly used to
restrict PersistentVolume access for workloads that required single-writer
access to storage. However, this access mode had a limitation: it restricted
volume access to a single *node*, allowing multiple pods on the same node to
read from and write to the same volume simultaneously. This could pose a risk
for applications that demand strict single-writer access for data safety.

If ensuring single-writer access is critical for your workloads, consider
migrating your volumes to ReadWriteOncePod.

<!-- steps -->

## Migrating existing PersistentVolumes

If you have existing PersistentVolumes, they can be migrated to use
ReadWriteOncePod. Migrations are supported from any access mode to

> ReadWriteOncePod.

Reviewer 2: I think this depends on the CSI driver? Some CSI driver relies on the type of access mode to decide whether it is block or file volume. ReadWriteMany indicates it is file volume. ReadWriteOnce indicates it is block volume. If the access mode can be changed from ReadWriteMany to ReadWriteOncePod and also from ReadWriteOnce to ReadWriteOncePod, then the driver won't know what type of volume it is any more.

Author: Ok thank you for clarifying. We can just focus on the migration from ReadWriteOnce since that's the most important / common case.

Reviewer 2: Sure

---
title: Change the Access Mode of a PersistentVolume to ReadWriteOncePod
content_type: task
weight: 90
min-kubernetes-server-version: 1.22
---

<!-- overview -->

This page shows how to change the access mode on an existing PersistentVolume to
use `ReadWriteOncePod`.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

{{< include "task-tutorial-prereqs.md" >}} {{< version-check >}}

> {{< note >}}
> The `ReadWriteOncePod` access mode was introduced as an alpha feature in
> Kubernetes 1.22. To use this feature in Kubernetes 1.22, you need to enable the
> `ReadWriteOncePod` feature gate manually.
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I'd skip that part, provided that the feature is on by default in Kubernetes v1.25
Why that version? Once this change ships, v1.25 will be the oldest version with available docs.

Author: The feature was still in alpha as of 1.25 and so this may still be applicable. What wording would you use for this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note >}}
The `ReadWriteOncePod` access mode graduated to stable in the Kubernetes v1.29 release.
If you are running a version of Kubernetes older than v1.29, you might need to enable a
feature gate. Check the documentation for your version of Kubernetes.
{{< /note >}}
```

access to storage. However, this access mode had a limitation: it restricted
volume access to a single *node*, allowing multiple pods on the same node to
read from and write to the same volume simultaneously. This could pose a risk
for applications that demand strict single-writer access for data safety.

If ensuring single-writer access is critical for your workloads, consider
migrating your volumes to `ReadWriteOncePod`.

<!-- steps -->

## Migrating existing PersistentVolumes

If you have existing PersistentVolumes, they can be migrated to use
`ReadWriteOncePod`. Only migrations from `ReadWriteOnce` to `ReadWriteOncePod`
are supported.

In this example, there is already a ReadWriteOnce "cat-pictures-pvc"
PersistentVolumeClaim that is bound to a "cat-pictures-pv" PersistentVolume,
and a "cat-pictures-writer" Deployment that uses this PersistentVolumeClaim.

{{< note >}}
If your storage plugin supports
[Dynamic provisioning](/docs/concepts/storage/dynamic-provisioning/),
the "cat-picutres-pv" will be created for you, but its name may differ. To get
your PersistentVolume's name run:

```shell
kubectl get pvc cat-pictures-pvc -o jsonpath='{.spec.volumeName}'
```
{{< /note >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

And you can view the PVC before you make changes. Either view the manifest locally,
or run `kubectl get pvc <name-of-pvc> -o yaml`. The output is similar to:

```

```yaml
# cat-pictures-pvc.yaml
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: cat-pictures-pvc
spec:
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here's an example Deployment that relies on that PersistentVolumeClaim:

```

```yaml
# cat-pictures-writer-deployment.yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cat-pictures-writer
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cat-pictures-writer
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cat-pictures-writer
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
        volumeMounts:
        - name: cat-pictures
          mountPath: /mnt
      volumes:
      - name: cat-pictures
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: cat-pictures-pvc
          readOnly: false
```

As a first step, you need to edit your PersistentVolume's
`spec.persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy` and set it to `Retain`. This ensures your

> PersistentVolume will not be deleted when we delete the corresponding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PersistentVolume will not be deleted when you delete the corresponding
```

PersistentVolumeClaim:

```shell
kubectl patch pv cat-pictures-pv -p '{"spec":{"persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy":"Retain"}}'
```

Next you need to stop any workloads that are using the PersistentVolumeClaim
bound to the PersistentVolume you want to migrate, and then delete the

> PersistentVolumeClaim.

Reviewer: Can they mutate the PVC whilst it's bound to a volume? If not, let's explain why (I mean to the reader, not to docs reviewers).

Author: Only certain fields (`resources.requests` and `volumeAttributesClassName`). Updated to specify this:
> Avoid making any other changes to the PersistentVolumeClaim, such as volume resizes, until after the migration is complete.

```yaml
---
# You may omit this object if your storage plugin supports dynamic provisioning.
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: cat-pictures-pv
spec:
  storageClassName: standard
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  capacity:
    storage: 1Gi
  csi:
    driver: io.kubernetes.storage.mock
    volumeHandle: cat-pictures-pv

---
kind: PersistentVolumeClaim
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: cat-pictures-pvc
spec:
  storageClassName: standard
  accessModes:
  - ReadWriteOnce
  resources:
    requests:
      storage: 1Gi
  volumeName: cat-pictures-pv # Omit this field if using dynamic provisioning.

---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: cat-pictures-writer
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: cat-pictures-writer
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: cat-pictures-writer
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: nginx:1.14.2
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
      volumes:
      - name: cat-pictures
        persistentVolumeClaim:
          claimName: cat-pictures-pvc
          readOnly: false
```

{{< note >}}
If your storage plugin supports

> [Dynamic provisioning](/docs/concepts/storage/dynamic-provisioning/),

Author: @xing-yang Should leave the PersistentVolume resource in the manifest above? I was thinking yes to support drivers without dynamic provisioning. But this requires additional caveats (e.g. the driver details in the PV will differ). What are your thoughts?

Author: After some review I decided to remove the PersistentVolume resource and make the example use dynamic provisioning. I think this simplifies the instructions and makes it easier to read and understand.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good.
